EXWC asked to research the use of small unmanned aerial systems (sUAS) to gather an analyze data for modeling electrical transmission and distribution systems, drive operations and maintenance for electrical grids, and aid in emergency and disaster response by providing critical information to response teams.  To acheive these goals, the EXWC team would research current sUAS technolgies and acquire a system or systems that are best able to deliver the performance required by the project.  A small team would be trained in these applications of sUAS, and the team would demonstrate the use of sUAS with participating organizations.

The first objective of the project was to use sUAS to inspect photovotaic systems.  There are several systems on naval installations that were constructed with one-time funding and no operations and maintenance budget.  They are idea test cases to demonstrate the proposed cost-saving use of sUAS inspections.  The site chosen for the first demonstration is the Pacific Missile Range Facilities (PMRF), which is a remote island site with low buildings and expansive property.  Though sUAS-related risks are few, the location and layout of PMRF minimize risks related to sUAS fly-aways and collisions.

The engineers at EXWC chose the DJI Matrice 210 (M21) system with real-time kinematic (RTK) positioning as their initial airframe for the application.  The Matrice family of airframes are enterprise-level sUAS built for commercial applications that require precision and durability.  The M210 weighs 13.5 pounds (without payload), can fly for 13-24 minutes, has a ceiling of 9820 feet, and is IP43 certified for ingress protection (e.g. light rain).  It has a 4.4 pound payload capacity, has upward- and downward-facing camera gimbals, and employs sophisticaled sense and avoid technologies out of the box.

To complement the M210, EXWC acquired two high-resolution cameras:  the Zenmuse Z30 and Zenmuse XT.  The former is a 1.2 pound visible-light camera whose zoom capabilities (up to 30x) allows for close inspection at safe stand-off distances.  The latter is a 0.6 pound infrared camera (7.5-13.5 micrometer spectral band with \pm 50mK sensititiy) that can be used to measure thermal anomalies in phtovoltaic cells that are indicative of performance degradations.

